in high school i had no idea what
calories were i think senior year that's
like
i was like oh everything has stats on it
like okay cool
okay there we go hey man alrighty hey
what's up nice to meet you nice to meet
you too
can you uh just start off by telling us
what do you go by
uh
you can call me john i go by john
okay you go by john and do you want to
tell us i imagine most people already
know because you were an awesome content
creator on twitch
but do you want to just tell us a little
bit about where they can find you and
what kind of stuff you do
uh yeah i mainly stream on twitch uh
with the handle masayoshi
um i'm also on
youtube but
am i doing like description or shout out
and like just like talking about
i was just so so so i i was told when i
started streaming on twitch
i was given some instructions that when
you have a guest
you should give the guests the
opportunity to tell people where they
can find you and what kind of work that
that you do
okay okay
yeah what kind of streaming you do
oh yeah i mainly just shoot on twitch
and do uh
it i don't know how to explain it it's
somewhat variety gaming but i mainly get
like attached to one game so like that
initial game was league of legends
and then
around that i would do variety but
now valor ever since the valerian came
out that's the new addiction
and then everything kind of goes around
that
kind of just been inviting around that
game yeah yeah so it sounds like you're
a variety gaming streamer and if people
are addicted to riot games they should
check you out yeah awesome all right
about right
and um is there something in particular
that you want to talk about today
uh i couldn't really pinpoint one uh
i don't know if they go full circle i i
would be interested in diving into
um eating disorders um
the one i struggle with is
binge eating disorder
um
like that's that one i've been
struggling with since like maybe middle
school high school
i think high school became more
prevalent okay
um
or even
addictions in general
okay sure
um so just a couple of i
just a couple of ground rules uh you
know the first is that
so first of all
um i very much appreciate and i'm also
surprised by your ability to just state
that you want to talk about eating
disorders
like i don't think many people are able
to do that
um does that make sense like
i really applaud you for doing that uh
because i think it's something that
people don't talk about because there's
so much shame around it right
um oh yeah i think
yeah go
uh oh well i mainly just like the idea
of binge eating disorder like you said
it is very
shameful to bring up but
i kind of also understand
um i don't know the main reason like i
want to do this is like they don't feel
alone
like within dealing with that since a
lot a lot of
i think influencers don't talk about it
i don't know i feel like i could tap out
with that yeah so i and that's that's
what i really want to like applaud and
appreciate because i i do think you were
i mean hopefully we can help some people
a couple of other things that i'm just
gonna sort of lay out just to make sure
we're on the same page the first is that
um you know just because you're here to
talk about potentially eating disorders
it doesn't mean that you have to answer
any question that i'm gonna ask so if i
ask any question
you may feel at some point pressured to
answer it because you kind of opened the
door but you get to shut that door at
any point are we
you you cool with that
yeah
and the other thing just to clarify
which i i know we've already talked
about and stuff is that you know even
though i am a psychiatrist and i know a
lot about eating disorders i'm not going
to be providing you with any medical
advice or or anything like that we're
just going to kind of have an open
conversation about eating disorders yeah
if you do
um you know you you're welcome to dm me
after the stream if you have specific
medical questions or looking for like
guidance to find a mental health
provider in your area or something like
that you're welcome to dm me and we'll
try to support you to find someone if
you decide you need someone or want
someone or if you don't already have
someone so i'm just sort of saying that
there's kind of a boundary around
medical advice on stream but we're going
to do our best not to leave you hanging
if there are additional questions that
you have that are a little bit more
personal is that cool
yeah it's cool i appreciate that
um so
yeah so tell i mean tell me a little bit
about
when you say you've had you've struggled
with eating disorders what does that
mean
uh
uh mainly just binge eating disorder and
i guess
there's a period where like i just
forgot to eat
for probably like a year because they're
just so focused on streaming initial
streaming
um
i believe i dropped from a weight of
like
220 to
170 within like
eight months
okay
it was just pure
i felt like i had no time to eat because
leaving my pc meant
um
just down time but then like i slowly
like try to to think of uh brainstorming
ways to
kind of keep chat entertained or to to
kind of entertain themselves while i
went to go get food and like just
overall sustenance um by like having
them watch the stream have them be the
streamer and like look over people or
um i'll like randomly read a name and
like hey if someone types this you're
banned
something like that
um
so it got a little better but like
it was still something i didn't
look back on or reflect on
after it happened when you say it got a
little better what are you referring to
i'm back at like uh i would like hover a
healthier weight
with or like out not healthier like
healthier lifestyle
of eating
uh but i end up just going back to binge
eating
okay so what i'm hearing from you is
that
as a consequence of like sort of needing
to stream or not
that that there were
i mean you had to stream sort of is what
i'm getting the sense of like you
couldn't take a break from streaming and
as a consequence of not being able to
take a break from streaming you lost
about 50 pounds
over the course of a year
yeah pretty much
so i
i think i i don't know that seems to me
a little bit different from a binge
eating disorder
um
yeah no for sure i i'm not sure what to
label that one yep uh
we'll we'll get into it but i just want
to acknowledge and make sure we're on
the same page that that's not what
you're referring to when you mean binge
eating disorder right
uh no because you were asking i thought
you were asking me like what other been
uh what other eating disorders sure i
know
i thought you answered the question
really
well and and so then tell me a little
bit about the binge eating disorder
we'll call that the streamer eating
disorder
okay
i like that um
so
middle school high school comes around
and i would say like that's like my peak
of
gaming addiction
to the point where i wanted to min max
my eating
and i wanted to like hork down all the
food i could
during uh lunch towards or even dinner
time so i could get back to cueing or i
also like mid-max
foods that i could make very fast and
easily which ended up being
rice we called it cheesy rice which is
pretty much just instant mac and cheese
now that i think about it um
but is it rice
it's just rice and cheese okay and it
just it's pretty much just like instant
mac and cheese it feels like
um
so you were looking not for food but you
were looking for fuel
fuel pretty much yeah yeah i could just
play play more
um
time was lp so like yeah i was just like
eating oh like eating one meal at lunch
and dinner but then after
all of
the gaming and like stress that it comes
with like solo queuing
for
12 hours
14 hours i would just then like stress
eat at night
and then stress eat
uh depending on like
because like doing that it led a lot to
doing a lot of assignments last minute
so i would stress it while doing
homework or studying and then that also
lead to just stress eating if it was
like a bad night of solo queue as well
or like because like back then i'd say
middle school high school i was like the
first time i was getting like a lot of
just like threatening people just like
being pissed at you
what does that mean
who's threatening that sounds scary
or it's like
uh league of legends solo queue um
especially
i don't know about other rings but like
it felt like high diamond everyone just
like was so hungry to win
because it was just like it was really
hype in like season two and season three
um
[Music]
i i believe
season three i was diamond one
uh and yeah it was just like it just
felt like a lot of people were just
stressed as well and just like taking it
on others
i see so so but you mean like by
threatening people we're talking about
people playing league of legends not
like
some some dude who's like i'mma [ __ ] you
up like in in high school
no oh no no no no no no yeah and league
and league okay i said cause i was like
i didn't know if we're talking about
like a physical abuse situation or
bullying or like you know you gotta jump
or like what's okay sorry i just called
like a surfer chill like it was not that
bad so people are mauling at you on on
league and it sounds
i mean it sounds i don't mean to
downplay the stress that no one causes
but i just i was just confused for a
second
so so everyone everyone is like super
stressed out everyone's hungry to win on
league and like if they don't win like
they're maulding and they're gonna take
it out on you
yeah and it was very new to me because i
came from like mmos and
yeah i came from like mmorpgs and like
rhythm games so there's like a new space
because i never played cod so i'm sure
like everyone is used to like
yelling at each other but i'm like
taking everything personally like whoa
dude just let's calm down yeah and so
play the game
and and so you would try to say that but
i i'm hearing that it would actually
like kind of like the toxicity would
sort of affect you like it would get to
you oh no it went into me i be i became
one with the with the rage wow
about that through like
early or like uh end of middle school
and like early high school
um you just i don't know it's like
you're like engulfed
you're just you're you're just seeing
red
and then like
you just want to do like i feel like
what you've the pain you've been
inflicted with and also just the
frustrations it's so much easier just
like put on someone else than yourself
displacing the pain and rage
yeah but then like at the same time i'm
like if i can't take responsibility for
mistakes i make in game i can't imagine
like what i'm gonna be like in real life
so just kind of like
i feel like that anchored me off of it
or that took me off of it anchored you
off of it or or not anchored me off
that anchored me i guess
so so you're saying that that saying if
i can't take responsibility in the game
i won't be able to take responsibility
in life that thought was beneficial for
you
yeah okay
um
okay
so sounds like people are being toxic
towards you
on the one hand you kind of become one
with the rage and you see red can you
help me understand what's what that
looks like or what that feels like or
what's going on in your head when you
become one with it
you're just pissed i i feel like uh
any stereotype and like a
just thinking like tv shows or movies
like an abusive
like an abusive dude just like kind of
deflecting and like projecting
everything
it's all really doing that
and projecting what does that help me
understand what does that look like how
are you doing that
instead of just like
if you're losing the game
what games should you play
because i'm sure like you've experienced
it i'm just making sure sure sure if
you'd be experiencing it so so i i play
i play dota
more so than league
um so we're mortal enemies in that way
but
um
you know but i i absolutely i mean i
think i think league is a great game i
think valerian's a great game
um
never played cs go
uh it seems like arcane is way better
than dragon's blood
but i'm looking forward to watching it
oh yeah
so i i play primarily single player rpgs
dota
um
yeah
and then let me think about what else i
play like i like a lot of co-op
multiplayer games like deep rock
galactic
um
things like that but
if that helps you it in dota imagine the
dude
that is just going in is there a jungler
not really but if there is everyone's
raging let's put it that way yeah
it's not it's not supposed to be a role
but sometimes in games it becomes a role
i'm just trying to think of examples
there's times where like
i just randomly like throw it on bot
lane because they're just getting dope
but like that's the natural state of bot
lane which has always been like that
jungler's just getting out pathed and
then like i would have to point it out
because i'm just like frustrated at the
fact that he's getting out past but like
i could have easily helped him um
if the person was toxic back though
that's where like
i would always like match that energy
yeah if it's obvious
if he's open this level then i'm coming
in too like i'm going i'm going one step
above yeah
i'm almost noticing some amount of like
energy absorption and then energy
reflection
adaptive
yeah i mean it almost reminds me of like
altimeters from fighting games where
it's like the more damage you take like
they they think they're winning because
you're at 10 health they don't
understand that you're about to
ko them from 100 to zero with your alt
i'm about to dissect their stats and all
that yeah yeah you're gonna you know
there's there's no there's no winning
you and the harder they fight the more
they're gonna get destroyed
they just need to understand that
they're they're getting out passed or
whatever as a jungler
it well yeah it was it was a weird time
yeah pretty much though
and and so help me understand this this
term stress eating why do you call it
stress eating
uh because i always have just like
coping it's like
i am technically hungry my stomach is
if
it is growling it's like this pain like
i need a okay my stomach needs to be
filled up
um
and i would just eat so much
that i think i got to the point it was
like a normal to just be like so full
to somewhat
some points like almost throwing up but
like
i kind of got comfortable with that
feeling i feel like that's where the
binge eating sort of like was born or
they kind of settled
and and so you so when you call it a
binge eating disorder just to clarify
and by the way we're coming up on one of
the boundaries that you don't have to
answer i'm curious have you ever
actually been diagnosed by a
professional or this is just the way
that you describe it
oh no i was never diagnosed by a
professional i just think the way i
always
yeah like self-reflection okay
um
so
so and so you you would eat to the point
like what would you eat after like a
12-hour league binge
high school
it was a lot of rice rice was like the
big i think just carbs in general
i think i think carbs is the easiest way
to sum it up
pasta spaghetti
um
right like like paint me like if i
walked in so if you're playing league
for 12 hours i'm assuming that this is
like midnight
yeah midnight to him so if i was a
burglar
hiding in your house what would i see
john do
i just got a bowl of rice on my desk i'm
just doing whatever i need to do i'm
just like working it down
just eating straight up rice like just
uh just cheesy rice okay or just
uh marinara nothing like no angel hair
just like regular spaghetti pasta um
after streaming it came it turned like
some like mcdonald's sometimes even
pizza
but mainly just uh spaghetti
okay so and how would you i know it
sounds kind of weird but how would you
cook it like would you like go down to
the kitchen and you'd like boil water
and like make pasta and like
and then you've got like like a a jar of
marinara or something and
yeah maybe al dente
uh yeah uh
that could maybe be indicator if you see
like a pasta sauce in the fridge
uh but yeah
okay so so you'll you'll and but so it
sounds like there's actually like kind
of a
um you know there's like actually ramen
i forgot ramen was another one too
and and like how many packets of ramen
would you eat
that'd be like two on a like a really
stressful day they could be three
okay
and and do you have a sense of like how
many calories you would consume like in
in pasta or cheesy rice
in in high school i had no idea what
calories were
uh
it was until like i think senior year
that's like
i was like oh everything has stats on it
like okay cool
okay now i can like i can start studying
this that's cool
okay
all right so so yeah so remind me at the
end to give you we're going to talk
about the stats of food this is
brilliant
yeah um and there's a formula that i
think gamers should follow when trying
to pick the stats of their food
um so
but do you have a sense now in
retrospect like how many calories you
would eat
oh yeah uh oh
i'm not sure because i look at old
images of me and i thought it was 240
but i've reached 220 recently
and i definitely didn't look nearly the
same weight so like it i think i was
like 280
in
maybe junior year of high school how
tall are you john 5 10 and a half
and do you know what your bmi is
no
not nowadays
okay
um
and so okay so like when you say stress
eat what i'm really hearing is not
i know it sounds kind of weird so i'm
hearing that you're eating a large
quantity of food
yeah i'm not
understanding the word stress so like
sometimes when i think about binge
eating disorder and sometimes when i
think about stress eating
what i actually sort of think about is
pre-packaged calorie dense food or i
think about someone like you being super
stressed out so they go to the freezer
and they grab like a gallon of ice cream
and they just go to town on that
you know
i've also done that too though but like
that's like
those aren't the
the most common ones but i've for sure
done that just like randomly like i have
to eat some ice cream or something
okay and and how often does that like
you know pounding twinkies or or going
to town on the ice cream like how often
does that kind of thing happen
uh
it happens on like
i i think just stressful moments in
general uh
like during finals it'd pick up
recently it's like
if i look at my schedule and i only have
like maybe
one to two days to do uh like have john
time
um
i think that's where it becomes more
prevalent yeah
okay so so this is when you're truly
stressed out
yeah
okay i think it's just like coping time
in general
um okay
so
and and did you notice so when when
you're eating let's say like so it seems
like when you when you're talking about
binge eating what you're referring to is
cheesy rice or or you know two to three
packs of ramen that's what we're sort of
thinking about here is that fair to say
yeah okay
and and i
i know it's going to be kind of a weird
question
were you eating to not be hungry or were
you eating for other reasons
uh
i would say both
there there are times where like
thinking like six months ago i was
so tired but then like i randomly but i
was also so stressed going to sleep
and the hunger got so loud to the point
like i was lying in bed for like 40
minutes and i was just hungry the whole
time but i had already ate dinner
um
[Music]
i had a good lunch i had a good dinner
and usually that that will be just fine
but
uh
i just had had to get up and eat
okay can you tell me about that that's
very helpful to hear so like what would
you what would be your circumstances
like if you can actually paint me a
picture or tell me an actual time that
would be really really helpful for me so
like what's an actual time where you had
a decent lunch you had a decent dinner
you're laying in bed at night for 40
minutes and you're feeling like super
super like you got that gnawing hungry
feeling like what was going on can you
do you remember an actual instance oh
yeah like
i feel like even last night
great um tell me about it
uh
nothing to throw flame here it's just
like i i think i got stressed about like
coming on to how the gaming
it was something i tried putting off a
couple times because i didn't know if i
wanted to dive into it
sure uh
and then i just felt stressed to the
point where like
i wanted to over like i just wanted to
overcome it and i just like
we have like cookies in the kitchen i
got i grabbed like three of those
uh that we had some salami grab a few of
those with a
uh havarti
nice um
and then sparkling water because i'm
trying to like
again calories so i'm like okay zero
calories here we'll go with that
sometimes i'm more
uh
wary of what i'm eating
uh but some days just like i don't care
so so tell me a little bit about the so
what were you when you say you were
stressed and you were trying to like
almost like overcome something like i
should come on
but
if you're saying you should there's a
part of you that doesn't want to
right there's a part of me that's like
uncomfortable with it but it's also a
part of me like i want to get on my
shell
i also want to
be able to like share my experiences and
also just learn from it alongside of
other people that are struggling with
the same issues
yeah so i understand that you're
motivated to come on and we absolutely
appreciate that i still want to kind of
tunnel into what is your
that stress that you feel about coming
on today
what kind of thoughts do you have in
your head like what does that stress
look like if i had a window into your
mind what would i see
or your body
i guess just the unknown
doing things that i'm not comfortable
doing every day
like i can go on my stream every day
because i just know what's going to
happen or like i could have like a rough
prediction
i had like a good ballpark what would
happen on my stream if i did something
but on someone else's platform
uh
just the unknown okay and kind of swan
diving do do you have particular fears
like does your mind say like oh my god
what if this happens or is it just like
i don't know what's going to happen
i just don't know i don't know what's
going to happen
and then you start to feel hungry
yes
and
have you noticed a correlation between
not knowing what to expect and how
hungry you feel
is that common
i haven't really looked into it
i haven't looked into that close
to you and so you start to feel hungry
even though you've eaten enough food and
if for example you are not coming on
stream today do you think that last
night
if you weren't coming on stream
do you think you still would have eaten
cookies salami in havarti sounds
delicious by the way okay oh yeah that's
great
so uh once i don't think so and once you
ate the food how did you feel
great
how i was like telling oh i'm good uh
yeah i was like i felt like i was tucked
in i had like my teddy bear went to my
bed
uh
and just like put on some music and they
kind of went to sleep
okay
did you enjoy eating the food
there's always guilt with it i think
that's the thing
there's always going to be guilt with it
but yeah i i feel comfy i am like
comfortable at that point
okay yeah so i know it sounds kind of
weird
um i understand that you feel
comfortable
but do you enjoy eating the food
oh no no no it's just like all guilt i
am like this is no this is nothing for
nutritional it's just like pure
emotional
okay and what does it do for you
emotionally
simmers me down
okay
can i think for a second
yeah
also if it helps in past editions i
think during the the streaming phase
that's where also
uh there's like
for sure nicotine addiction and i think
that was the coping with stress
okay
and i think this is what and then it was
it was born again after i quit
it was what was born again then
uh the eating eating came back after
yeah i stopped smoking okay so um what
i'm sort of hearing is that you tend to
bounce around between addictions
oh yeah
okay so maybe there's something have you
ever thought that you have an addictive
personality
oh yeah
addictive uh gaming is always there for
addictions but everything else that
bounces around for sure
um help me understand
what what when you when i use the phrase
addictive personality and you say oh
yeah
what is that
what do you identify with there like
what do you what do you think about like
what is it like to have an addictive
personality
any
hobby anything i purchase anything i put
my time into anything that
gives
feels like a
dopamine rush anything i like
uh even drinking
um
all of those i have to second guess and
look at him like hey
is this addictive and like do i really
want to dive into this
um or should i keep at arm's length so i
know like i can't like i can't put
myself in a situation to get addicted to
let's say like building keyboards i
didn't want to buy too much stuff
to just like start hoarding
um
all these things like okay if i don't
buy a soldering kit
there's no point of me even building
keywords at all whereas like i could
rent i could rent soldering kits so i
know like i should go out of the way to
get it
uh which would then like slow me down on
getting keyboards and like stuff like
that
i'm almost hearing that you've got like
this caged beast
inside you
and if you
let it free
you're gonna like lose comp so you set
up like almost
environmental protections to keep your
addictions in check
yeah uh especially uh even with alcohol
i'd say i'm afraid of like buying too
much of that
uh or even leaving it like open because
like i'm like i don't know i'm afraid i
think in
in the past i for sure like
i dove into that as a coping
but then i just
i felt like [ __ ] so i kind of
uh weave off of that
uh
but even to now like just to make sure
it doesn't happen again i just i don't
like buying too much alcohol or leaving
too much
heartache all around
john i'm just beginning to notice that
you must be living life on high alert
like always have to think about
you know i'm just noticing that you
can't just like let go like you know you
can't be free
i mean maybe i'm i'm reading too much
into it but i'm just trying to put
myself in your shoes for a second and
like to always you know some people go
to the store and they just like buy a
six-pack or whatever they don't have to
worry about
buying too much or buying too little
you know some people like on steam you
just buy a game and you don't have to
think about
you know like am i going to lose
a year of my life in this like if i'm
purchasing a keyboard or i want to pick
up a hobby i don't have to think about
what if this goes too far like i'm
noticing that there's almost always some
part of you that
i don't know if it's almost always but
it feels to me like it's like
on guard
i see it as a good map awareness i don't
know
uh
but yeah it
that it does sound a lot stressful
thinking about it
so so i totally agree it's good map
awareness
right that's that's brilliant
the outside is a and at the same time is
it does it keep you from relaxing
that's a new realization i don't know
i've never thought about it
as like always
being tense
i'm wondering go ahead yeah
all right hearing the uh yeah just the
way you said it like someone picking up
a six-pack and not having to
second-guess it
uh the only way i've reflected on it is
like
people just eating in general
like not having the second guess of food
i feel like i have to second-guess it i
don't
i don't know
i lost that train of thought but yeah
do you ever wish you were different
recently no i've come to acceptance that
this is just
what it's like or what it is it is what
it is and i'm just kind of learning ways
to adapt around it
you say recently
yeah what about before
oh yeah i wanted it every other way
can you tell me about that
it was just the
i just wanted to be normal
the way i put it
and what what did normal look like to
you
uh not having to second guess like
eating
drinking
my environment uh
child proofing everything
addiction proofing yeah yeah
and do you think acceptance is a good
thing
from all the videos like i i watch a lot
of videos for my self-education and
it just feels like
the most recent one was like the monks
uh and it was so fascinating to me
um
uh and it just felt like acceptance
was the only way to
not move on but like
kind of improve that style that
lifestyle and like to grow from it
i think except maybe it's not that black
and white
when i hear that you've accepted this it
feels incredibly sad to me
what do you think about that
it doesn't feel that sad to me like i
said
uh
it does just feel like a lot of
it doesn't feel outside of me i feel
like
it always keeps me motivated to just
self-improve
and to kind of overcome
these hurdles
or just like not even hurdles like who i
am
overcome who you are
uh or no that was the same thing
uh just kind of
learn to
be neighbors with it or also just
no okay not being neighbors with eating
binge eating i want that gone but
learn different ways to cope
like knitting instead of like oh my i'm
so hungry just like start knitting like
really aggressively
some just some any way to uh calm me
down
okay
i've been looking up different ways for
that i i see it's it's clear to me john
that you
work really hard
when it comes to this
i'm curious how are you feeling
emotionally right now
uh
brain's like clogged with like
i feel like i open up a new pathway um
the way you worded with
uh uncaging like i'm caged something
within me is a caged
um
and
that like
the way my lifestyle is seems very
stressful because i always have to
second guess
what i get into um
and yeah uh those two have like very
much just
uh
made me feel a little more emotional but
also more
relief that i can put more definitions
to
john
do you know what kind of emotions you're
feeling
oh i don't want to see
not sadness just
relief maybe
that like i have more definitions to
i feel like i've been i haven't been
finding answers the past year it's more
so band-aids
i've found different size band-aids to
cover different wounds
uh
and they just keep falling off but like
now
not surgery but like we're finding just
new definitions to
what it is
yeah i get the sense of believing that
you're really tired
that you've been working at this for a
long time and actually what i hear is
acceptance this may sound kind of weird
is almost defeat
that for a long time you wanted to be
different and you kind of resigned
yourself that this is always going to be
the way that i am
even i thought map awareness was
brilliant man because map awareness is
something that's ingrained in you right
it's an awareness it's not something you
do
it's something that is almost like
and and you've lived with this for so
long that you've become
accustomed to it it is your way of life
so even map awareness doesn't even feel
stressful to you
yeah
you know
what do you think about that
and
even acceptance is sort of like
well might as well accept it because
that part of you that always wanted to
be different well you're [ __ ] there
because it's never going to be different
so might as well accept
it and you even catch yourself with some
of the health self-help terminology
because you're like because that's how
you move past it but oh no the monks say
you're not supposed to move past it
right i see what you're doing there
where you're trying really hard to
incorporate what they've taught you yeah
and i think you're doing it and you're
putting these band-aids on but there's
still that part of you that
is like
wounded
you're taking that bleed damage
i've been ignited
uh yeah it's so hard though because like
going into it you're hoping it's not a
band-aid or
you're diving into it as if it's not a
band-aid and then
you walk in the fog of wards like oh i
was a [ __ ] band-aid okay i'm going to
rip that off and try the next thing
uh
how many how many
how much
how many chances to blunt plunge into
the fog of war do you think you have
left
like how long can you i don't know
i'll keep frontlining i don't care uh
it just feels like
what else do i have to lose
at the moment
that's about it
i feel like i'd rather overcome this
than ignore it
of course
let me can i think for a second how are
you doing by the way we you is okay
oh it's strong it's powerful i'm just
i'm shaking it off you know okay let's
do a little stretching you can you can
think for a bit
let me know if you need a penis joke to
elevate the mood
i'll take one actually that sounds great
oh god now i gotta come up with a penis
joke okay
we'll come back to the penis stroke you
can you can do whatever you're thinking
about no i'm sure i've got one somewhere
in there you know uh
here's one there's a penis somewhere
inside me i just have to find it
yeah i'm gonna need a second
um
so i'm gonna just
i'm gonna switch gears in a second john
unless you have questions but i'm gonna
kind of leave us with just this
sentiment
what choice do i have
okay
right i i want to just highlight that
because i it feels really important to
me in terms of what drives you i think
there's
some amount of like
desperation isn't really the there's
some amount of inevitability
right because you don't want to you
don't want to give in to it
and yet
every time you you swan dive or invade
the fog of war
it turns out that their team is there
gg noob
you're you're making a you're making a
move to try to salvage the game and it's
like back to the fountain [ __ ]
thanks for trying and then you respawn
right and it's like oh let's try this
move and then it's like guess what
we're still here
gigi moved back to the fountain
and so there's something
you know there's there's something kind
of like tiring about that right there's
something
frustrating about
applying band-aid after band-aid after
band-aid and trying and trying and
trying and kind of like still
sort of going back to square one
i do think objectively it's clear you've
made a lot of progress i think you also
acknowledge i imagine that you've made a
lot of progress
like i think you probably have a lot to
be proud of or no
uh
the only progress i've kind of come to
or like been proud of identifying
like
identifying it and like catching it in
the moment like okay if i eat this it's
emotionally not for nutrition and like
okay and then like i start nomin but
okay good that's actually huge
so so this is the other thing john i
want to point out to you is like you
catch your words a lot
and i i think that's really important
because i think what you mean to i think
instinct there's a part of you that
really feels like
the only progress that i've been able to
come to terms with the only progress
that i've been able to convince myself
is progress
right does that make sense like i don't
think that that's uh it's not like it's
not like you're bad at english
right
well
uh
i'm all right no no you're
i think this is important because so
your neuro-linguistic circuits of the
brain
pick the appropriate words
and so when we're feeling a particular
way
right like when we're raging at our
jungler for like not being in the right
place at the right time it picks the
appropriate word that captures what we
feel whether it's right or wrong does
that make sense
so the language we use is an insight
into like how we actually feel
and what i'm hearing is
the kind of a thread is that you've been
watching all these monks for so long
that you're like you're trying to shape
your neural linguistic programming
oh okay monks is like a
it's been like a two-week thing now like
it's like a week wait but
you've been band-aiding this [ __ ] for a
while
yeah and and so i think it's that's why
i think actually it's huge progress to
recognize the emotional awareness so i
think the next step is to recognize
how do you authentically feel about this
and like
because i think that's gonna be how we
ultimately you know
suture the wound closed and i think
that's maybe what you're looking for
um sutures instead of band-aids
uh it's it's it is mostly that i would
say and you are right
there's also times where like i haven't
really
sat with the thought yet
um
and
i am putting it one way but i also
actually mean it a different way if that
makes sense okay yeah
i'll if you say that then i'll accept
that and not
overly
analyze what you're saying but
i do think you are right about the
coming to terms and catching that yeah
okay
so uh john can you tell me a little bit
about your upbringing
um
within birth or streaming
let's start with birth
okay and we'll get to streaming okay
um
i was born and raised in central
california uh slow county
[Music]
where is central california help me
understand what that means
uh well i ever talked about norcal socal
but
i'm central cali so like between
socal i'm like three hours away from san
francisco three hours away from l.a got
it like that area um
and
i went to a
christian school from kindergarten to
third grade
and then from fourth grade to sixth
grade i went to a catholic school
and then i went to a public school in
middle school
uh
and high school is also public as well
um okay
i have one older brother
my parents are still together
uh my mom and dad and
i
uh my grandma was around a lot she
actually moved in i believe
when i was in
seventh grade middle school
that's when she would been
and she would always cook for me
uh and i think that's where the ramen
comes in because she would always cook
me ramen
but she'd always put way too much butter
or olive oil she was italian
uh
just she just she was she loved olive
oil
um
do you remember how you how it would
feel in your stomach when you had ramen
with too much olive oil
uh
dense i don't know uh i didn't really i
never never felt stomach it was more so
like just mouth just like okay
the
just too much feel sick
no i i always just kind of sat with me
okay
i always settled and so it helped me
understand john what is your ethnicity
i'm japanese german and italian
and what are your parents
my mom's japanese and my dad is german
and italian but he recently did a dna
test and figured out he's like actually
30 french so i don't know
okay
okay too much now
um and what was growing up like for you
uh
um
older brother always had his friends
over
uh seven years difference
it was open door
uh i was very fortunate
um i was in a very fortunate house
and
it was two-story and the the bottom
floor the basement was like always
the cave area and all my brother and his
friends would always be in there playing
games
and i was just being smurfed on for like
18 years just trying to play games with
them but like i would just get [ __ ] on
but i'd always
grind the game that we were playing
until i was just as good but then
they would always swap games so i would
just kind of help with that it was just
always kind of that way
um
really fun house though
i had a great time
um so it sounds like
uh
what was what was like school grades
um
it was weird because since i hung out
with people seven years of uh with a
seven years difference my
sense of humor is very different from
kids in my into my grade
until around
fourth grade
um
i found that group of people that like
had the same sense of humor but it also
turned out
uh my best friend
uh he would also hang out with his older
cousin which was seven years difference
and that my brother
was actually going to school with his
cousin so it's kind of funny how that
worked out
girl
so
uh first kindergarten to third grade was
actually insane um i was heavily
inspired by my mom because she skipped
the second grade or if she skipped the
third grade i was like i want to be like
that i got to skip a grade now
um
i remember in the second grade i was
actually so fast at math i qualified for
a math tournament
and i feel like
that was the peak of my my school career
because as soon as gaming picked up
it went downhill
um i think even the math team i got like
fourth place i'd even get top three
but it i just remember my mom being so
like
my son's a genius like let's go um
bad gaming picked up and that's when
school got really hard
um
no stimulation
no compete it didn't feel like
competition
there's like no drive to improve in
school
uh mainly just to get by
uh how'd you feel about that
somewhat acceptance like she wants me to
be happy but also she wants me to do
well because i think
when you're raising a kid
from her generations like if they're not
doing well in school they're not
successful
but i feel like nowadays she's more so
acceptance with like happiness and just
health
i think she's adapted to that
okay
i'm wondering and this may be me reading
too much into it but it sounds to me
like she accepted your gaming the way
that you're doing whatever false
acceptance you're doing now
maybe because streaming ended up working
out but yeah sort of
accepting it accepting defeat but deep
down
maybe she came to terms with it
yeah
uh
i'm not yeah maybe
not sure um although it does sound like
she's she's able to be genuinely happy
for you now
oh yeah she she tunes in a lot my dad
randomly spams my chat
he just he's a one one man spammer i
have to kind of weird camp at him for
that but
i'm glad
i'm glad they enjoy it
what's it like having your parents and
and watch what you do
uh my parents have always been jokesters
mainly my dad my dad's from
uh he was a kearney growing up
my
grandpa was a foot juggler
uh
i have a circus family uh it was always
it's always been jokes um
my my fight with my dad's is always like
like
dad you did this wrong though he's like
oh yeah but you were adopted and then we
would walk away and then laugh at it
are you adopted
no oh my dad just likes to like
mess with me okay and stuff like that or
always joking around so what you're
telling me is that you have a genetic
advantage at
being a twitch streamer like you
literally have circus jeans
i i guess so i it's entertainment to my
family yeah that's it that's that's cool
man
and and so it seems like i mean were
they how would they feel when your
grades like how were your grades like in
let's say sixth grade fifth grade
seventh grade
it's so weird uh
think about it now i was in this higher
i think it was
fifth or sixth grade i was in like the
higher math
class
but i saw my best friends in the lower
math class i'm like this is this looks
way more fun why would i ever want to be
in this class i'm like
yeah i could do geometry in sixth grade
but this is boring as hell this teacher
is like so strict and the teacher and
they're like they're playing with like
cars and stuff i was like i want to go
in there
they're like talk they're actually
they're allowed to talk
like in my class i was not allowed to do
anything like
it was so boring to me and like i would
just like
i asked my parents like oh i went to my
parents like this is way too hard like
or like like the class is way too hard i
i can't do this and then
they talk to the teacher and let me just
hang out or not they didn't let me hang
out but they let me go to the lawyer
class um
do you remember i didn't have yeah go
ahead i i just did not understand the
importance of
uh the higher math class i'd say
i feel like i should just
found more transparency within that with
my family but yeah
i opted for fun
and did you have a sense of how your
parents felt about that
there's like oh it's too hard okay we
can work on that and they like
they just ended up working around it but
i feel like
as time went on my attention span got
lower lower and lower
uh to the point like in middle school i
had to start getting tutoring
but even when that even with that like
more restrictions just felt like
yes less fun but like also
i didn't get to
i there's always just less want for
school i always wanted there's just
i always felt like i wanted a more
competitive edge to schooling like i
wanted a ladder system really bad
in i think eighth grade i was like
i would rather just
it would have brought out the best part
of you
yeah i just feel like
it felt like i was doing it for nothing
um i felt like i was only doing it
because
social standards
for my family did you feel guilty at all
and disappointing your parents
uh yeah
knowing that i wasn't doing one school
was always guilty like just getting by
like i think it's just season b's but
like then my my
parents some semesters were like really
kicked down like if you don't get at
least bees this semester like
we at least you see 3.0 you just can't
do c's to get by like it's not
acceptable
uh i think that's where that's when
tutoring came in it's a little foggy in
the area
but
it didn't feel great
um
not getting
to the
educational standards they wanted
felt a bit guilty but my my dad always
seemed to understand
and actually my mom seemed to understand
yeah so
kind of a weird question but
what was it like to have understanding
and parents
there's a weird line of a definition of
understanding parents as well now i
think about it because there's there's a
lot of threats to breaking my pc if i
didn't get off because they knew i at
least had some assignment to do they
didn't know what it was like i know
there's an assignment somewhere
like just just pull it out like get like
get off
but i'm like the season just reset like
this is a big deal
big climb big lp gains um
uh
there's a lot of grounding
a lot of grounding
uh i think after the grounding and then
like i was able to like show hey i can
put my grades up
uh i got i got 3.0 here
uh
i guess more i guess i became a lot more
rebellious the more restrictions
that came around
um
i remember they took away my pc for
two weeks
and all i could play with was a rubik's
cube
uh or go outside
but in high school all my friends got
expelled due to like drugs or fighting
so
i didn't get to make closer friends
until like maybe junior senior year of
high school mm-hmm
i did junior year that's when i started
making closer friends
uh
did you feel i remember when the
restrictions happened though
do you get the sense that i know it's
gonna be so i'm going to ask you kind of
a leading question here and
you know feel free to say no
i'd say there's a 20 chance that there's
something to this did you feel like
guilty for having understanding parents
because or maybe not guilty but most
people think that having understanding
parents is a good thing
and leads to like positive emotions
i'm i'm wondering if you actually had
some kind of unusual opposite experience
where you actually felt bad in some way
because your parents were so
understanding
i think i'm explaining it wrong because
i definitely never felt like they were
understanding
they were like definite like outbursts
and it actually felt like gaming became
like an underground hidden thing like
i think
sophomore year
um
sophomore year i made friends with
people and like
that's when i started making close
friends online uh i didn't have a lot of
close friends in person maybe like
freshman year of high school and uh
the only time i could ever concentrate
or play games was actually when everyone
went to sleep so around 9pm that was the
only time i could play games
uh
it felt very hidden
at that point
um
but then my my parents always noticed i
was tired
what was it like hiding gaming
uh
thrilling i don't uh
always on edge like even though there
are no distractions there's always that
thing in the back of my head like like
what was that sound like oh it's just a
cat okay it's like a cat walking around
like that footstep on the staircase like
uh
like the fight or flight
they're just like hiding the game
hmm
i'm maybe i'm thinking of weekends
because weekdays it was actually like
i felt like i was on
i was always being watched
gaming was very restricted
i haven't like thought about it in a
long time so it's very it's like coming
it coming to me in waves
the memories
sounds like your parents were on guard
yeah
they didn't know how to restrict gaming
they all they knew was like
gaming is the issue get rid of it type
thing
uh
but it felt like i always needed to find
a way to play games i don't know if it's
like out of
spite i
remember like sneaking my ds and just
like
playing the garage
or even like finding a uh i would like
if i knew if i knew if my dad didn't
need to use his work laptop
um i would use that
internet restrictions happened as well
my dad is he works in it
and he would always find ways to like at
on my ip my designated pcip
a password would pop up if i opened up
any chrome extension or anything it
would just block up everything uh and
i'd have to that became a game of okay
what's the password
uh
oh my god dad i lost my phone can i use
yours to call it
because i knew he texted the password to
my brother so he could use the internet
because he has to work
oh my god like oh thank you and like i
like looked at the text i'm like oh your
password is blah blah blah and i call my
phone like oh i found it thank you so
much and then
8pm comes around i'm back on league
it became a game of cat and mouse
yeah i think my mom and dad yeah
i don't think they knew about that
but yeah it went to those extents
um john did anything you know anything
happen
to you that you feel is like emotionally
significant
like any kind of major things happen to
you like in terms of bullying or
um
you know anything happen around seventh
grade sixth grade fifth grade
uh that sort of it may not seem
significant to outside people but like
uh
trust issues came around middle school
i'd say
house bullying
i was the only asian school actually in
elementary school i was the only asian
school only asian guy at school
until high school and i met another
japanese guy
uh
uh people like dude like the typical
like i'm gonna blindfold you with dental
floss or stuff like that
uh i always thought there's jokes though
because i came from a joking family like
i'm like
oh i'm gonna sue you or something i
don't know i it was just i was a kid um
and then or like
it always seemed like a joking manner
because i doubled down with the jokes
the bullying didn't go further
yep
so you you you became the class clown to
protect yourself from the from the
bullies
sort of
maybe not class clown but like you know
actually yes though
there's a lot of that
yeah
but i feel like i became friends with
the bullies because of it
and what about uh you don't have to talk
about this if you don't want to i just
want to get a broad strokes kind of
approach can you tell me a little bit
about dating john
um
dating
[Music]
interesting girl started around middle
school
is always
uh i feel like i was always the least
interested in the group
uh
i think it was like the outcast the
minority
but
that was okay i didn't really care too
much about it when um
i had gaming to worry about anyways you
know you're about to say league right
i had lp on my mind uh
or even like i don't know when i'm
saying maple story i had like a mesos on
my mind guild wars wow like i was i was
chilling i i didn't really work too much
about it uh
i think middle school was like my first
instance of bullying even for my closest
friends they randomly outcasted me for
like a week
they threw my backpack
i just noticed like it was i don't even
know how to explain i don't even know
what happened i think it's just kids
like i think a rumor got around or
something and then they just agree they
decided to target me they threw my
backpack off a staircase that's like 40
steps might to the point where like my
binder broke
like everything collapsed
and that day i also happened to borrow
my brother's
ipod
or zoom or something if that broke
and that i just felt super bad about
that but
i think that's like my first huge shake
on bowling i was like holy [ __ ] okay
i'll just
do my own thing
um
girlfriends uh it's cool um
my first like official like real
girlfriend was
junior it was a senior
um
chad mode bro oh yeah what can i say
uh
we did it for three years
from junior year to
first year of community college for me
uh
that ended due to cheating
unfortunately but i also
understood
uh she did
we
saved up for a korea trip
i got her airbnb and then came back was
like oh
that happened
but yeah
um
and john how old are you if you don't
mind me asking
24. okay
i didn't think i was like i was i was
like he's gonna ask me my age i could
not remember if i was 23 or 24.
i had to think about it not really
important
um
and did you finish college
no uh i was supposed to get my aaa
um
[Music]
but
i just had no interest still it was
still weird uh i was just gonna like
accept and be like
i'm just gonna do it dad whatever
i did my a plus plus which is like
very fundamental basics of i.t
um like where does ram go where uh
motherboard you know you know
motherboard it's just like stuff like
that
um
i remember going to class for that uh
but
when i was going to
finish wrap-up i i think i had like one
more full year of community that's when
streaming took off and i was like i was
like i'm going to just
chase this now and see if i
enjoy this
uh and if this doesn't work out then
i'll just go back
technically
like full time or like when did i start
start like as a hobby
start as a hobby and when did you go
full time
own 3d shut down around
i'm not sure
whenever own 3d shut down i usually just
say that and people like oh
okay 20 2015. and how long have you been
full time
through two to three years
so you've grown quite rapidly
uh
yes recently for the past
three years for sure i
i went to a thing called shimmer camp it
was hosted by box box and foosley um
from there it went to
full time after that
and from hobbies
do you um
are you dating anyone now
uh yeah i'm currently dating another
shimmer
and broad strokes we don't need to go
into details but like how's that going
amazing um
it's the most secure and
transparent like
confident i've ever felt in any
relationship
i'm happy to hear that man
yeah
um
and john are you happy
as a whole i
i think so
but like i feel like there's no
definition to happiness
i like being busy
i like
where i'm at
i'm
content but i always want
to
i'm 100 happy now because i caught up
with everything i cleaned my room my
room's organized everything's feeling
good
everything's back in place
i am currently happy yes okay
but i'm happy to hear that okay with
sleep
i'm not satisfied sleep what are you
sleeping eating
um
i i just think i'm never gonna be
satisfied until like i get
a correct sleeping regiment and like
i finally
beat the eating
uh
like my binge eating ah
okay
um
any questions for me
how are you doing are you happy
how do you feel
i'm really enjoying talking to you
i appreciate that
um
yeah i'm happy
i
yeah
i think some things were different about
my life but for the most part i'm very
happy um
i'm glad you're that
i think uh yeah and and i think
especially in this moment i i
i think that yeah i'm really enjoying
talking to you and recently we haven't
been doing quite as many interviews
and i'm really remembering
talking to you is making me
really remember why i love talking to
other people
um so i'm i'm really happy about that
thank you and i'm happy to hear that
any other questions
um
no nothing's coming to mind
okay
so
i'd like to share some thoughts with you
if that's okay
okay
um
let me just think about where to start
so
you know if you want to get
evaluated for an actual eating disorder
i think that that's totally fine i think
it's not a bad idea
although what i'm hearing is
i think runs a little bit
not necessarily deeper but just
i don't think eating disorder captures
you very well
um generally speaking when evaluating
for eating disorders there are a bunch
of questions that clinicians would ask
which i'm sort of not asking almost on
purpose because that's really more of a
medical conversation
and and i think that what i'm really
hearing from you is
is and what i think we can talk about
today is like
what is a human being's relationship
with food
and i think that's a better way to kind
of describe it because i think there's a
lot going on here that may not be
as simple as an eating disorder
so part of what i don't like about the
psychiatric system is that it tends to
like bucket things i think which can be
very helpful in some ways but can also
be very restrictive
so for example if you get diagnosed with
an eating disorder
you may go through eating disorder
treatment
which is find it affecting
an eating disorder but there is more
going on i believe to your relationship
with food
that
i think needs to be explored
so
if anything i'm i'm sort of like an
addiction psychiatrist so like most of
my patients
over the last few years have been like
related to addictions
and this is where if you have an
addictive personality like
you can treat the eating disorder but i
don't know if that's going to fix
whatever else you get addicted to does
that matter
it's just going to go to something else
yeah so this is something i haven't gone
too into too much detail but it seems
like you play whack-a-mole with your
addictions
does that make sense
yeah i like that right so like it's
gaming then it's nicotine then it's food
there may be other things kind of rolled
in
and so this is where like we have to
have a high level sort of understanding
of like what role what is your
relationship with food
um and and so and also like what does
food do for you and then
we can start to think about
what is it that you need done does that
make sense
so like food does something for you and
that speaks to a need
but if you really want to get and then
that need gets managed by things besides
food so if you really want to overcome
this
i think it's about understanding what
are your core needs and also
what are the structures that you've put
in place
that
adapts
how can i say this
what are the macros that you've
programmed to deal with the fact that
you suck at something
right so like if i don't know how to
last hit like i'm going to use a macro
and i'm going to develop a macro
and and so it's sort of like instead of
dealing with the core of the problem
like as human beings we build like
adaptive structure
structures to protect us from it i see
so yeah i think that's a good
that's a great point instead of uh i
feel like i'm avoiding the stress and
rather
focusing on something
that's not the core issue it's if
anything just a part of it how do you do
that
so just tell me what's connecting i'm
seeing dots connecting for you so
vocalize those for the sake of everyone
else who's watching
um
it feels like uh a root which is the
next addiction root is now binge eating
to deal with the stress rather than
dealing with the core which is the
stress
i feel like i need to find a way to
rather deal with the stress rather than
deal with the binge eating because
that'll minimize the binge eating in the
long run
and also maybe
ways to cope
yeah so
and this is where things get a little
bit weird because
uh okay hold on
i just realized i was missing a question
that i just thought of go ahead say
something here
go oh no i was just wondering like if
that does that sound about about right
that's what we're dealing with yep yep
absolutely so i just had an insight john
wha what are you
has there been a time in your life where
so what i'm hearing i'm just going to
kind of like start the
the more psychological stuff so like
basically
who used to keep you in check
parents who keeps you in check now
uh
my friends
myself yep
this is you always being on guard
right so you have started so like like
they used to do this for you
and now you've learned how to do it for
yourself
does that make sense
oh yeah
yeah that makes sense
right so you started doing they came up
with a strategy
that keeps john from falling apart
and that was the strategy that you
learned that was the meta in your
household
which is don't let john go off the rails
so they didn't teach restraint they
taught restriction
and so now in your mind you don't have
restraint so you have to use
restriction
can't get a soldering kit can rent one
holy
yeah
right because if the soldering kit is
there i don't know how to not use it
so i just need to limit
my access to soldering which i've of all
of the addictions i've ever heard of
you take the cake
for a brand new one
i've never had someone come into my
office and say
i'm addicted to making keyboards
it's buying uh retail therapy i don't
want to buy too much
whatever
you can call it something else if you
want to but you're [ __ ] soldering at
it
and and years from now
like you know your your girlfriend who
is then going to be your wife is going
to come into a psychiatrist's office and
is going to say
he was supposed to pick up the kids from
school
and i found out six hours later that he
was in the basement soldering the whole
time
it got me
right
so the first thing is that you
and so this is then then you come up
with the band-aid
and but the band-aid is built off of the
back of like yours your the meta that
you're trying to play with your
addictive
impulses
right so like if you can't if restraint
isn't an option and restriction is the
only thing now you're like looking for
other random [ __ ] but it's like it's
like piled on top of like a meta that is
formed does that make sense and i think
that's why it's not working like it'll
work a little bit but it's like
an adaptation to an adaptation
yeah
oh yeah
and at some point it's just like i feel
like it's diluted
or saturated
okay yeah what do you what do you mean
by that i i don't understand what you
meant but it sounds 100 correct
uh it just feels like all the band-aid
fixes
that
the power of each restriction feels less
and less
from this point on it feels like nothing
will be solving it it will only be
minimizing
right so this is where i think some of
like
this kind of goes back to this like i've
come to terms with it like acceptance is
the only way and that's [ __ ] sad bro
yeah
right like you feel that
like how
terrible like it's it's not acceptance
it's defeat
yeah
if you don't understand that or want to
push back you're more than welcome to
oh no i totally agree with you on that
yeah so it was just very hard like it
just
everything i like looked into it just
felt like it all ended up coming to
acceptance
because
without the acceptance it felt like
there's no
uh not happiness um
living a satisfying life
yeah so so and all that stuff is right i
think this is the challenge though of
like the self-help stuff
is that we don't really appreciate that
we filter that stuff through our
existing
meta
yeah
and so you're you're kind of like you're
in this place where like i i know that
you know acceptance will help you and
will get you to acceptance but this is
where like
there's there's a there's a
sinister amount of defeatism underneath
your acceptance there's resignation
there's nothing i can do so might as
well accept it
right it's not like actually empowering
it all it's like
sure it's a way forward but
it's a [ __ ] way forward and and i don't
blame you for taking it because that's
all we know because you're a smart guy
you clearly you know we're a math genius
you've succeeded at many different video
games you were grinding to the point
where
you were
playing against kids who were seven
years older than you which is ridiculous
and then they would move games because
like the second you get good they can't
lose to a kid who's like seven when
they're 14. so time to time to switch
games
right you've risen to become successful
as a streamer so you and you i think
it's clear that you've done your
homework and you try really hard so
you've got good stats
you've got a good work ethic
and and i think you've learned a lot i
think the challenge is that it's all
been through this existing structure of
like understanding
your problems which i think is off which
is why it feels like a band-aid and it
doesn't really work
with me
yeah so now let's dig into
what it is
my first question to you or maybe last
question to you
is has there been a time in your life
where you've really gone off the rails
and you've learned the price of going
off the rails
yeah uh
it was when i at my peak weight
uh i still don't know how much it was
but it was like my lowest
self-confidence i never wanted to go out
uh
i could even wear pants
i was wearing my is when i wore my dad's
shirt i was wearing my dad's
double xl
and that was like the only shirt that
felt comfortable to me
that's when i realized
that was the only time i let the rails i
went off the rails
how did it feel to be that person
uh i wasn't proud
i felt very
unhealthy um
eating just felt guilty
uh but i approached
my parents about it and then
uh i just learned to from there stop i
just stopped drinking calories and like
went on from there
how did it feel to approach your parents
it wasn't really approach it was more so
like a suggestion i was like hey
would you be open to like sugar-free
stuff zero calorie stuff
i don't think i ever
faced a head-on
what are these like i've always beat
around the bush
they're they're open to it because i
feel like we were no we were never the
healthiest family
um
a lot of processed foods not a lot of
whole foods until
like five years ago we did like a whole
food a whole foods diet together i think
that's when we learned a lot as a family
and that's when i learned a lot about
calories
okay
uh why do you think you beat around the
bush
uh
i just don't like bothering it i always
feel like i'm bothering people but
i just want to make it more stressful
than it is because i want to deal with
it i want to deal with the stress
and i want to battle it i don't uh
uh be a
withdrawal from the day
or a deposit
sorry
i'm hearing that you don't want to be a
burden
yeah
even if it takes a small amount i know
but
yeah i i just feel like i can i should
be able to face it
which is
hypocritical because then i want people
to approach me about their things
which i've also understood
but
yeah so
this
is worth exploring deeper
um
but this is the thing
so like when we talk about the root i
feel like this is
it so it's going to be weird i'll
explain this in a second because i want
to leave you with something a little bit
more concrete i feel like this is
opening a door that we may not have time
to open right this second
in terms of follow-up if you want to
work with a therapist to explore the
stuff more we can
um i'm wondering if i'm sort of miss
missing an opportunity here but i really
do think that
yeah i think that this is probably a
conversation for another day but i'm i'm
glad you gave it this much color because
i think there's a lot there
yeah so there there's a lot about and so
i think basically like the reason that
you're terrified to let yourself go
is because if we think about the way you
feel today
when we think about the way that you
felt wearing your dad's double xxl shirt
those are the polar opposites of your
life
there's like masa yoshi now
amazing girlfriend who feels secure
professionally successful eating healthy
and then there's that guy
there's john
and and what i'm getting the sense of is
that you are terrified of becoming that
person again you were resigned that
there may be nothing you can do to
prevent being that person again
and that all of those thoughts and
feelings are things that you beat around
the bush with
so you kind of keep them at arm's length
and so like there's some questions that
i'll ask
which will start to get at that and then
you'll start to feel like emotions
because there's something inside you
that you're just you're terrified of
like what so like if we think about why
does someone have to be on guard all the
time
right like why do you need map awareness
it's because you're gonna get ganked
yeah
and and what is what is getting ganked
for you
and so generally speaking human beings
don't randomly fear things
they learn to fear things
so your fear of
going off track comes from some
experience that you've had
maybe it's gaming
maybe it's going to community college
maybe it's not
living up to your mom's
expectations of a math genius
and there's a lot of beating around the
bush where it's like like even coming to
terms with it like your mom probably on
some level came to terms that her son is
never going to be this thing that for a
moment
she was like oh my god he's going to be
the chosen one and the rest of your life
you haven't been the chosen one and i'm
guessing that
it has been hurtful to be able to see
that in her
you know in and this is where things can
get super confusing because it's clear
she loves you it's clear she supports
you it's clear she's proud of you
so how can she also be disappointed in
you
it designated with me throughout school
i was very much disappointed that i
every time not every time but like in
the back of my head every time i went on
my pc uh she's like
i'm not
i'm not that kid my mom
uh was destined for or deserved okay not
dessert um like no dessert
nope yeah that's it
right and instead she got
john
yeah right and so that can hurt
and and i i don't think that you're
wrong when you saw
all of the times she was a little bit
disappointed in you
i think that's why if we talk about you
know the one feeling i've asked you
multiple times what you feel
and there's really only one feeling that
you've been able to articulate do you
know what it is
no guilt
everything else i get a brilliant gaming
analogy
so you understand what you feel you just
don't know how to describe it
right so you'll use like and that's
great i mean you your brain is coming up
with a gaming analogy to articulate like
what your experience is
so there's something going on here where
there's like there's some amount of like
and here's the thing you
you know even if we kind of talk about
why you don't want to be a burden to
people it's like you don't yeah you know
on a weird way like i don't think you
really mind too much [ __ ] yourself up
i think it's like what you're really
concerned about is like not
disappointing other people like not
letting other people down like the guilt
that you feel is not because of the way
that you are with yourself it's because
of the way that
you don't want to inconvenience other
people
yeah
self-sabotage it's definitely that's a
hobby of mine
what do you mean like that or it just
seems like it seems like self-sabotage
how so
uh
having those expectations of myself that
i don't
um
be a burden to others but
when people come to me it's not a burden
at all i want people to feel comfortable
and
be open enough
yeah
so if we kind of look at this like why
can't you relax
and i think it's because
this is where like it all kind of starts
to tangle together or come together
is like the reason you can never relax
is because you never want anyone else to
be responsible for keeping you in check
so you've never got a safety valve
you've never got support you've never
got backup you can't call for a lane
rotation you're playing league of
legends 1v5
you can't count on anyone else or you
can count on them you just don't want to
because then you'll be a burden
and then you're you're left like dealing
with all this crap on your own
like does your girlfriend know that you
struggle with eating
uh i'm letting her know more and more
about it
right so if we think about what is that
process like for you i think it's a sign
of real growth
that you're letting her know more and
more but i would guess that
every bit that you let her know feels
like
walking through lava
that you're going against every instinct
or fiber of your being to let her
understand that
this is something that
you're working on
because and i would also guess that you
feel guilty when you tell her
i don't like
mentioning why there's alfredo in the
fridge
or like an open jar of alfredo or like i
i
even in this new place i've like
purposely hid
not hid but like in a higher spot
because
she's a little shorter uh but like in a
higher spot like so i didn't have to
explain it it's like it's a me thing
yeah
right so it's a me thing that i'm
working on
and and that's hard
and so i think this is where like i i
don't know exactly how this stuff comes
together but as we talk about the
addictive personality like i think by
the way a lot of your eating disorders i
mean i don't know it's an eating
disorder is is really like gamer eating
disorder as opposed to like binge eating
disorder i haven't like formally
evaluated you but i think there's just
like physiologic stuff going on
so for example when you play league of
legends for 12 hours
so this is it's it's interesting so
there's even a physiologic like
barrier here that's really important so
if you game for eight hours you're fine
if you game for more than eight hours
you're likely your tendency to binge eat
is gonna go astronomically higher
there's a very simple physiologic reason
for this
so our liver has this uh stuff called
glycogen and glycogen is a carbohydrate
store that supplies our body with
glucose
over
over like when we're living so glucose
is really really important because it's
one of the two
um fuel sources that our brain can use
yeah and so like we want to preserve
glucose it's part of the reason why we
love eating carbohydrates because
carbohydrates give us glucose so we've
evolved to be very sensitive to glucose
now the interesting thing about the
glycogen stores in your liver is that
your body can only store about eight
hours of glycogen at a time
so if we don't eat for eight hours we'll
be fine
and then once we cross that eight hour
mark our body starts to go into a
catabolic phase where we start breaking
down muscle and we start entering
literally like the first stage of
starvation like that's like how it's
physiologically described i'm a little
bit rusty on this so if there's you know
a dietitian or someone out there they
may adjust correct me but basically once
you cross the eight hour mark your body
is literally starving
so the the drive to eat changes very
drastically after an eight hour period
and so yeah
yeah so when you're
it makes a lot of sense and so i don't i
don't even know necessarily that you've
a binge eating disorder i think you do
binge eat but i think there's a lot of
physiology and it's a pattern i see with
gamers a lot which is if you play for
eight hours without eating anything then
like you're gonna feel like famished
because your body's literally in
starvation and then the signals to eat
physiologically and like neurochemically
start to change after the eight-hour
mark
i i think during streamer
was it streaming eating disorder
i think that was but
even last night i had
uh for lunch burrito dinner
chicken mashed potato broccoli
come
four to six hours later because i have
to go to bed the
stress
and the the scream for hunger came in
yeah so you have that [ __ ] too so this
is like they're there this is
multi-factorial
so okay there's the physiologic thing
there's the cheesy rice that you had as
an eighth grader
right there's that thing going on and
there is absolutely an emotional
component to eating
where there it may even be like a
physiologic component there too so this
is kind of interesting but when you eat
high levels of carbohydrate your insulin
level goes up
insulin is a hormone that causes you to
absorb uh glucose from the blood
and the other interesting thing is that
insulin is an anabolic hormone which
means that it causes you to produce
things it's sort of like we're in
production mode versus like
uh breaking down mode there's anabolism
and catabolism so one is like we're
storing energy the other was we're using
energy
so when the other interesting thing is
that insulin makes people sleepy so when
we eat food and we have a insulin spike
we'll get into a food coma so i think
that you're physiologically eating
salami cookies and havarti
to trigger a physiologic response
that slows down the thoughts in your
head and like literally reduces your
stress because that's the effect of like
insulin on your mind is that it's gonna
kind of like slow things down
so there's also a physiologic element to
your as you put it stress eating
and you've got the more traditional like
addictive personality where the way that
you manage your emotions is through
certain
dopaminergic or reinforcing activities
um so this can be nicotine it can be
food whatever so there's like the more
standard like people stress eat which
you occasionally do but i think there's
actually way more going on with you
physiologically than you give yourself
credit for i don't think you're just
like an addict
there's a lot of really interesting
physiologic components to your story
which kind of stand out to me
um
thoughts
questions that was beautiful that that
everything you just said right there was
art that was
i'm probably have to rewatch the vod to
like really let it set in but
well said that was
very intriguing
good i'm glad you you found that
beneficial so like that's the
physiologic component which is i think
part of the downside to self-diagnosis
is that there are oftentimes things
going on which i don't i don't think
you're wrong actually about anything so
that's one thing so now so that's just
to
keep that in mind is that if your stress
level is high
the coping mechanism that you've learned
is
to eat food because
that's how you sort of calm yourself
down physiologically
now this is where um let me just think
for a second i'm gonna try to tie
together a couple of other things so
there's like the physiologic component
and then there's like the addictive
personality thing which may also be like
somewhat genetically determined like you
may have a sensitivity to dopamine have
you ever been evaluated for adhd
yeah
do you know if you have it or i got i
got diagnosed with an adhd combination
okay so that doesn't surprise me at all
as well because i think the way that you
describe your addictive personality
is actually a neuroscientific difference
that exists in the brains of people with
adhd
so people with adhd are literally more
sensitive to dopamine
so
the ability of dopamine to swing your
behavior one way or the other way
like is variable depending on whether
you have adhd or not
that makes a lot of sense
right so you just get
you swing very easily like yeah
and and so i'm not surprised that you
have adhd because the the story that
you're describing reminds me of the
people that i work with who have adhd
so there's a neuroscience component to
your quote-unquote addictive personality
which has nothing to do with psychology
it's not about oh like feelings and
guilt and oh my god desperation
restraint and it's like it's like
literally like the way that your brain
it's like an amplification of the
dopamine signal
compared to the average human being
then so there's the physiologic
component there's the neuroscientific
vulnerability due to adhd and then
there's the psychological component
which i'm going to circle back to now
somewhere along the way
you know your parents sort of
discovered that the way to keep john in
check is like not by understanding his
problem because they never asked you
right they never were like john like why
don't you do your homework
like they may have said why don't you do
your homework as an expression of
frustration yeah but they never sat you
down because it seems like you also have
a very beat around the bush family
communication style where you guys joke
about things and you refer to things
like your parents know hey what do y'all
think about cutting out sugary soda your
parents know that they're like oh my son
like realizes he's fat
but we're not gonna ever tell him that
yeah and he's not gonna say that he's
not gonna say like i'm losing
self-confidence like i'm wearing a shirt
and i feel pathetic
you're gonna show up and you're gonna be
like and then your dad is even gonna
crack a joke to make you feel better
yeah you know and so that's your thumbs
it all up
that's your communication style so what
that sort of means is that your ability
to like actually understand what's going
on within you
is like sort of not developed and that's
not your it's not anyone's fault it's
just like you're you're that's not how
you all communicated every family
communication style has advantages and
disadvantages
so the upside of your family's
communication style for example is that
your family is actually very resilient
so if people are like super authentic
and bad [ __ ] happens it can be like too
much
so you need the joking ability like
joking gives you like trauma resistance
for example
um but it it may you know it gives you
like
an introspection debuff and it gives you
like trauma resistance
so so and this is where there's
something going on psychologically where
you don't want to feel like a burden you
don't feel good about yourself you're
terrified of becoming a 280 pound
whatever
and so those kinds of fears you don't
really know like how to
meet them head on and so you start to
like find random ass solutions on the
internet
about acceptance
but like you're not accepting the right
thing you're not accepting what needs to
be accepted within yourself you're just
like accepting what you're accepting is
that you're going to be powerless and
you've got to restrict yourself in gg
noob
right you're you're like resigning
yourself to just like losing mmr which
is like the wrong thing to accept which
is why acceptance isn't working and this
is the whole problem with like the
acceptance movements people like accept
but it's like accept what
and if you accept the wrong [ __ ]
thing like you're not gonna get better
damn that's so true yeah
so it's like i don't even know like what
are you
the acceptance movement is like the
perfect wording for it
it like everything i do come across as
it boils down to acceptance but but what
are you like i'm asking not rhetorically
not philosophically like when you say
like i'm ex i'm trying to be more like
what are you accepting what is it that
you're accepting what
the idea is like i'm accepting john
like we're
mostly changed shaking hands as the way
you put it
if there were are you accepting john
yeah like working together you know
like hey i i uh
i'm introverted and i like recharge when
i'm alone like we're just working
together
i'm like okay we can do that we can go
we can go hang out and like not
maybe play games because i'm afraid of
uh let's do a little bit of a dopamine
detox let's like just chill out for a
bit stare look at look at the window
like all right yeah we could do that
yes
okay so that sounds actually pretty
healthy so i think you're actually on
the right track and i would say that you
know when you talk to your girlfriend
that feels to me like the right kind of
acceptance
does that make sense to you
yeah
she's giving me the space to talk about
talk about pretty much anything it's
just like a matter of do i have the
strength or
to do it yeah the strength good so so
here's the reason i think that's really
good because
in order to tell your girlfriend
something you have to accept it first
right you're telling her hey this is how
it is
you with me and so you can't say this is
how it is
you there would be no conversations that
induced guilt with your girlfriend if
you were in denial
does that make sense so like a
prerequisite to talking to your
girlfriend is
the acceptance and when you say you're
letting her know little bit by little
bit
you're not letting her know a little bit
by a little bit you are accepting little
bit by little bit because every time you
tell her you're actually owning a piece
of it
wow yeah
that makes sense
right because like that's when you're
like hey this is how it is
that is what acceptance means
it's like
now
the the
okay
questions with me so far
yeah yeah okay so going forward for you
john i think that um if you want to get
a tackle on your eating behaviors
it's going to be an appreciation of the
physiology which i think you've managed
to shortcut right because when you have
lunch when you have dinner you're not
going into that first stage of
starvation anymore engorging yourself on
cheesy rice you know you were also
saying that even though you eat cheesy
rice you feel almost like throwing up so
why wouldn't your body stop it's because
it's got a starvation mechanism going on
and in starvation what your body is
doing is like they don't want to stop
when you're full
they want to stop
when
they want to go as far as we can without
throwing up even if you feel
uncomfortable because come tomorrow
there's going to be another famine
so what your body is doing in terms of
how it determines how much to eat is
it's like there's going to be famine
tomorrow there's going to be famine
tomorrow we go 12 hours without a meal
so we we got to pack in as much as we
can
and like you're eating a [ __ ] bowl of
cheese and rice like that's not
that's not binge eating psychology
that's like my body is starving
right
but it feels weird because like i've
already had full meals
prior to all to everything but this i'm
talking about this is like seventh grade
you where you wouldn't eat for 12 hours
right
yeah i
or whenever you wouldn't eat for 12
hours and would eat cheese yeah maybe
that's good to would stop if i would
snack
or i feel like i'd drink calories but
maybe yeah that doesn't count as meals
yeah that makes sense
so yeah there's there's physiologic
stuff if you're describing a scenario
where you go past the glycogen window in
the liver and then you go for hours
after that your body is literally in the
first stage of starvation and your food
drivers your consumption drivers are
going to change drastically
especially if this is a pattern that
gets repeated over and over and over
again because then it's almost like
intermittent fasting where your body
like knows
that we're not gonna get food tomorrow
so we get a better pile up today
wow that's crazy
so what you're perceiving is an
addiction you call it an addiction
because it's really hard to kick
but it's not an addiction it's a
survival mechanism which is absolutely
hard to kick because that's how your
body has
evolved to survive starvation
it's a crazy realization to come to
terms with
because like
i thought i had identified with this
because there's so many like
similarities
almost one to one but
that makes so much sense because like i
i was like this feels like a habit like
or like i this feels like a habit rather
than a
instinct at this point
yeah and i so just to appreciate that so
the first thing is as long as you
continue eating healthy amounts of food
i don't think the cheesy rice will come
back
on the flip side there is definitely the
psychological stuff so i think you've
just learned how to physiologically use
food to calm down your mind which is
part of the reason that people get into
that's why binge eating is managed by
psychiatrists because there's
psychological drivers right they're
mental drivers and then of course
there's the coping kind of mechanism
stuff component which we haven't really
talked about which is that if you eat
food sometimes you like dopamine and
like you just feel good mentally it's
not the physiologic insulin stuff it's
like the other stuff as well so i think
you've got kind of all of the above and
the short answer is that i think as long
as you continue having conversations
with your girlfriend
and you acknowledge that like restraint
is possible
and and i think the more that you sort
of start to like give yourself the
opportunity to
go off the rails a little bit and
recognize that the more that you can
trust people like your girlfriend to
rotate to your lane when you're getting
ganked like if she's gonna tp to your
lane and you can count on her
then there's this cosmic sense of like
being on guard which will start to like
come down
and then you're gonna feel amazing like
once you're actually able to understand
that there are people in this life that
don't have to that i can count on to
keep me in check
and you're able to not feel guilty for
recruiting them to like keep you in
check then you'll be able to relax and
enjoy food in a way that like i'm sure
you do on some level already but
and that's really what i envision for
you which is i understand you have a lot
to be grateful for but like i want you
to be able to like
you know not need map awareness i want
you to be able to count on other people
i want you to be able to like not feel
guilty and burdened all the time
and i want you to like understand that
you don't actually like you don't have
to accept defeat when it comes to this
thing
it's not like an endless slog of war
against this caged beast you can
actually let the beast out and it'll
like play with you and you don't have to
worry about it going haywire
that makes sense
questions thoughts
fascinated uh
that's my thought questions
i got nothing
i just got stuff to sit with and like or
think about that's
wow yeah
that's powerful
cool
um i normally ask people if they want to
meditate
do you meditate
i've tried
uh
i forgot the app
i did like guided meditation i've also
i have watched your i've watched a lot
of your videos in the past as well and
i've tried your um the point on the
forehead and just thinking about that
uh
that's as far as i've gone though and so
some sort of breathing exercises when
you say you've tried
this could be an over interpretation on
my end but does that mean that it hasn't
really worked for you
um
until like i dive a month into it it
doesn't feel like i've really
experienced it it doesn't feel like i've
gotten the most of it or like i can't
really have an opinion on it
until i do it for at least a month
so give me just a second would you like
to learn something today
yeah i'd love to
let me just think about what kind of
meditation will be geared for what you
need
okay
are you hungry right now
uh
no but i usually take make a smoothie
uh for lunch
okay breakfast
have you had anything to eat since
waking up nope
okay
i was gonna make a smoothie after this
yeah or oatmeal
um let me just think for a second okay
so what i'd like to do john i don't this
may be the third meditation technique
that you do but i'm going to teach it a
little bit prematurely
and so
i would definitely encourage you to like
practice like a simple like breathing
meditation like alternate nostril
breathing or something like that for a
month
um and then what i would want you to do
is do like a more regular meditation for
like maybe 10 minutes and then do this
for like five minutes afterward so if
you think about a 15 minute daily
meditation practice
you should do like regular stuff
and then but this is the practice that's
like actually a little bit for you
okay
okay so it's going to be a little bit
more
inquisitive
it's going to be a little bit more
awareness oriented
and what i really want this technique to
do remember how we were saying that like
your your family is like taught you or
you've learned how to beat around the
bush and sort of like address things
kind of like
tangentially as opposed to like things
head-on
and and you've also talked about you
know how john is meeting masayoshi
you're actually on this journey of like
understanding who you are
and so what i'd like to do is give you a
practice that really tunnels that down
and uses
eating and hunger
to give you an authentic insight into
like what you are and how you work
okay so okay i want you to sit up
straight i know it's kind of weird
it's gonna be
both easier and harder than it sounds i
want you to sit up straight your back
should be straight
my back's a little or my chair the back
of my chair's a little far back yeah
yeah so uh do you have something you can
sit on on top of your chair like do you
have a cushion or something that you can
i grab a pillow yeah
gaming chairs are the worst for
meditation
boom
all right okay so i'm gonna
okay so doing like a lumbar narrower
we're gonna this is great we're gonna
teach you this okay so how does that
feel
oh it feels great okay so now i'm gonna
ask you to do something else what i want
you to do is take the bottom 30 of the
pillow
and like
bend it
so that you're sitting on it on your
butt
i want you to oh
okay so so like the top half of the
pillow should be
yes very good pillow fitting yep yep yep
all right now sit sit on yeah sit on the
pillow yeah all right
cool now see how that feels
i'm gonna shift it over to the right a
bit
what helps you sit up more easily
uh
the other one other way okay then go
ahead and move it back to the way it was
all right
okay so back should be straight neck
should be straight as well okay
okay i want you to close your eyes
and i'm gonna kind of guide you through
this okay so this is gonna be a
meditation
to help you understand
what hunger is
and the different ways in which hunger
and the satisfaction of hunger affects
you
okay so
we're gonna start off but i want you to
notice how hungry you feel
all right and just notice like where is
the hunger
right like what is the actual sensation
like if i was an alien
and i was inhabiting your body
for
30 seconds
what would i feel so where is it what is
the quality of it
is it gnawing is it sharp
is it empty
do i feel it only in my stomach
or do i also feel it in my limbs
it feels dull
okay
there's not much urge to eat it's just a
dull hunger beautiful
nothing to do
excellent you're one step
you're one step ahead of the game
because now the next step
is notice that this is a physical
sensation
but an urge is something else
right an urge is now a mental driver
so there is a physical sensation
which at some point will manifest
is a mental desire
and you may even notice that as the urge
arises that the urge is for particular
things
and so what i want you to do
is
notice the relationship between the
physical sensation of hunger
and like
why it isn't an urge yet
and when will it cross into becoming an
urge
so like let's let my uh thoughts wander
in terms of like
when would i want to eat or just kind of
sit with the hunger
yeah so sit with the hunger and what i
really want you to do is notice
so it may not be able to be done now so
that's why i'm saying this is like kind
of a more advanced meditation technique
but i want you to watch your hunger as
it becomes an urge and notice that like
the quality of it changes
and then as you watch it become an urge
what do you think it will be an urge for
okay
and then as you see it become an urge
then you can satisfy it so you can do
this today with your smoothie whereas
you have your smoothie i want you to
drink it how quickly do you drink it
i'm a fast eater i know so how quickly
uh
pb is probably like
if i'm really in a rush i could i just
hork it down and then just wash in the
sink if i'm uh
not too much of it in a rush i just like
sit on my desk
so like you think you can finish it in
three minutes on average
is harder to get down faster than
hurricanes like five seconds
yeah so i'm gonna give you like three
minutes
so when you have your smoothie today i
want you to drink it with your eyes
closed over a three minute time span
you could take longer if you feel like
it like but minimum of three minutes
okay
and what i want you to do is pay
attention to what is changing within you
so the physical sensation of hunger will
change but also the urge will be
satisfied
and this is the really key thing if you
want to overcome the binge eating
when you eat you must have awareness of
which urges are being satisfied
because you're satisfying urges that are
not physical
and once you start to eat you'll start
to be able as you do this practice
you'll start to be able to differentiate
out the physical sensation from the
psychological urge
and as you gain
awareness of the psychological urge
that will then give you the foundation
of what you should accept
am i able to open my eyes yes
okay it's hard for me to concentrate my
mind just wondering
okay yeah so that's also common thing so
i'm glad you mentioned that so people
with adhd sometimes
uh
concentrate better with their eyes open
so when you
when you drink your smoothie actually
you can have your eyes open if you want
just have to hear it like something
just have your whatever allows you to
focus on the sensation of hunger
the crossing from hunger to an urge
which if you can catch that that would
be beautiful but it may happen over like
a longer period of time
and then as you drink the smoothie
notice the sensation of hunger as it
changes and notice what you're
satisfying and then you should do this
with more than a smoothie
so the next time that you're you know
it's 2 a.m and you've stayed up too late
and it's way past dinner and you feel
like eating something then you'll be
able to sit with the hunger and the urge
and there are two discreet things as you
eat a cookie the hunger what changes
with the hunger and the urge
and what's getting satisfied
and once you understand what it is that
food satisfies for you then you'll
understand what is the root of your
problem and what needs to be fixed and
as you fix that the binge eating will
fall apart
that's fascinating
yeah
i like that
cool
it's hard
yeah it doesn't sound easy but
i for sure want to give that a go i'll
get back to you on that
awesome man
well thank you very much john for coming
on today
it was a pleasure
uh it was a lot of fun talking to you
and getting to meet you um
thanks for having me on i appreciate it
yeah man i really appreciate it i think
you talked about something that um we
actually haven't spent a whole lot of
time talking about so i'm really happy
that i mean i'm supposed to say i'm
really happy you have a binge eating
[Laughter]
you know so i'm really happy that you
chose to talk about that and i think
especially talking to you has helped
um really reinforce for me like how
complex
our relationship with food is and i
think it's sometimes way more than just
a binge eating disorder which you may or
may not have
and you know if you want to get
evaluated by someone you should
absolutely do that but
that's not like a nice ease of mind yeah
no thank you so much it's really good
yeah you too
bye later
you